PAST_PAPERS_UPLOAD_GUIDE.md, before:

# Past Papers Upload Guide

## 📁 **Complete Folder Structure Created**

✅ **52 subject folders** have been created for organizing CSS past papers:

### **📚 Compulsory Subjects (7 folders)**
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-precis/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/general-science/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/current-affairs/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/pakistan-affairs/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/islamic-studies/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/comparative-religions/`

### **🎓 Optional Subjects (45 folders in 7 groups)**
- **Group 1**: Accountancy, Economics, Computer Science, International Relations, Political Science
- **Group 2**: Physics, Chemistry, Applied Mathematics, Pure Mathematics, Statistics, Geology
- **Group 3**: Business Administration, Public Administration, Governance, Town Planning
- **Group 4**: History subjects (Pakistan & India, Islamic, British, European, USA)
- **Group 5**: Gender Studies, Environmental Sciences, Agriculture, Botany, Zoology, Literature
- **Group 6**: Law subjects (Constitutional, International, Muslim Law, Mercantile, Criminology, Philosophy)
- **Group 7**: Journalism, Psychology, Geography, Sociology, Anthropology, Languages

---

## 📋 **How to Upload Past Papers**

### **Step 1: Upload PDF Files**
1. **Navigate to the specific subject folder**
   ```
   Example: public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/
   ```

2. **Upload PDF files with descriptive names**
   ```
   english-essay-2024.pdf
   english-essay-2023.pdf
   english-essay-2022.pdf
   ```

3. **File naming convention**
   ```
   {subject-name}-{year}.pdf
   Examples:
   - economics-2024.pdf
   - physics-2023.pdf
   - computer-science-2022.pdf
   ```

### **Step 2: Add to Database**
After uploading files, run the automated script:

```bash
node add-past-paper-from-folder.js
```

This script will:
- ✅ Scan all subject folders for new PDF files
- ✅ Extract year from filename
- ✅ Generate proper titles
- ✅ Add entries to the database
- ✅ Create proper file URLs

### **Step 3: Verify**
Check that past papers appear on the website:
- Visit: `http://localhost:3003/past-papers`
- Select the subject
- Verify files are listed and downloadable

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start Example**

### **For English Essay Past Papers:**

1. **Upload files to**: `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/`
   ```
   english-essay-2024.pdf
   english-essay-2023.pdf
   english-essay-2022.pdf
   ```

2. **Run the script**:
   ```bash
   node add-past-paper-from-folder.js
   ```

3. **Confirm addition** when prompted

4. **Check the website**: Files will appear in the English Essay section

---

## 📊 **Folder Statistics**

- **Total Folders Created**: 52
- **Compulsory Subjects**: 7 folders
- **Optional Subjects**: 45 folders (organized in 7 groups)
- **Ready for**: Multiple years of past papers per subject

---

## 🔗 **URL Structure**

Once uploaded, files will be accessible at:
```
https://your-domain.com/past-papers/{subject-folder}/{filename}.pdf
```

**Examples:**
- `https://your-domain.com/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/english-essay-2024.pdf`
- `https://your-domain.com/past-papers/optional/group1/economics/economics-2023.pdf`

---

## ✅ **Benefits**

### **🎯 Organization**
- Clear separation by subject type and groups
- Easy to locate specific materials
- Logical folder structure

### **📈 Scalability**
- Each subject has dedicated folder
- Can accommodate multiple years
- Easy to add new subjects

### **🔧 Automation**
- Automated database updates
- Smart file detection
- Year extraction from filenames

### **🌐 Web Integration**
- Seamless website integration
- Proper URL structure
- Database-driven display

---

## 🎯 **Ready to Use**

The folder structure is now complete and ready for:
- ✅ **File Uploads**: Upload past papers to specific subject folders
- ✅ **Database Integration**: Use the automated script
- ✅ **Website Display**: Files will be accessible through the past papers pages
- ✅ **Year-wise Organization**: Multiple years can be stored for each subject

**Start uploading your past papers now!** 📚

Commit message:

Implement card links and fix past paper duplicates
Linked all resource cards to their respective pages with improved hover effects and navigation on the homepage and resources page. Added duplicate prevention logic to the past paper upload script and introduced a new script to remove existing duplicates from the database. Updated documentation to reflect these changes and cleaned up duplicate entries in the past papers JSON data.

PAST_PAPERS_UPLOAD_GUIDE.md, after:

# Past Papers Upload Guide

## 📁 **Complete Folder Structure Created**

✅ **52 subject folders** have been created for organizing CSS past papers:

### **📚 Compulsory Subjects (7 folders)**
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-precis/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/general-science/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/current-affairs/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/pakistan-affairs/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/islamic-studies/`
- `public/past-papers/compulsory/comparative-religions/`

### **🎓 Optional Subjects (45 folders in 7 groups)**
- **Group 1**: Accountancy, Economics, Computer Science, International Relations, Political Science
- **Group 2**: Physics, Chemistry, Applied Mathematics, Pure Mathematics, Statistics, Geology
- **Group 3**: Business Administration, Public Administration, Governance, Town Planning
- **Group 4**: History subjects (Pakistan & India, Islamic, British, European, USA)
- **Group 5**: Gender Studies, Environmental Sciences, Agriculture, Botany, Zoology, Literature
- **Group 6**: Law subjects (Constitutional, International, Muslim Law, Mercantile, Criminology, Philosophy)
- **Group 7**: Journalism, Psychology, Geography, Sociology, Anthropology, Languages

---

## 📋 **How to Upload Past Papers**

### **Step 1: Upload PDF Files**
1. **Navigate to the specific subject folder**
   ```
   Example: public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/
   ```

2. **Upload PDF files with descriptive names**
   ```
   english-essay-2024.pdf
   english-essay-2023.pdf
   english-essay-2022.pdf
   ```

3. **File naming convention**
   ```
   {subject-name}-{year}.pdf
   Examples:
   - economics-2024.pdf
   - physics-2023.pdf
   - computer-science-2022.pdf
   ```

### **Step 2: Add to Database**
After uploading files, run the automated script:

```bash
node add-past-paper-from-folder.js
```

This script will:
- ✅ Scan all subject folders for new PDF files
- ✅ Extract year from filename
- ✅ Generate proper titles
- ✅ **Prevent duplicates** - automatically skips existing entries
- ✅ Add entries to the database
- ✅ Create proper file URLs

### **Step 3: Verify**
Check that past papers appear on the website:
- Visit: `http://localhost:3003/past-papers`
- Select the subject
- Verify files are listed and downloadable

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start Example**

### **For English Essay Past Papers:**

1. **Upload files to**: `public/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/`
   ```
   english-essay-2024.pdf
   english-essay-2023.pdf
   english-essay-2022.pdf
   ```

2. **Run the script**:
   ```bash
   node add-past-paper-from-folder.js
   ```

3. **Confirm addition** when prompted

4. **Check the website**: Files will appear in the English Essay section

---

## 🔧 **Duplicate Prevention & Management**

### **✅ Automatic Duplicate Prevention**
The upload script now automatically prevents duplicates by checking:
- Subject ID
- Year
- Paper Number (if applicable)

If a past paper already exists, it will be skipped with a warning message.

### **🧹 Remove Existing Duplicates**
If you have existing duplicates in the database, use the cleanup script:

```bash
node remove-duplicate-past-papers.js
```

This script will:
- Scan the database for duplicate entries
- Show you which duplicates were found
- Remove duplicates while keeping the first occurrence
- Provide a summary of the cleanup

---

## 📊 **Folder Statistics**

- **Total Folders Created**: 52
- **Compulsory Subjects**: 7 folders
- **Optional Subjects**: 45 folders (organized in 7 groups)
- **Ready for**: Multiple years of past papers per subject

---

## 🔗 **URL Structure**

Once uploaded, files will be accessible at:
```
https://your-domain.com/past-papers/{subject-folder}/{filename}.pdf
```

**Examples:**
- `https://your-domain.com/past-papers/compulsory/english-essay/english-essay-2024.pdf`
- `https://your-domain.com/past-papers/optional/group1/economics/economics-2023.pdf`

---

## ✅ **Benefits**

### **🎯 Organization**
- Clear separation by subject type and groups
- Easy to locate specific materials
- Logical folder structure

### **📈 Scalability**
- Each subject has dedicated folder
- Can accommodate multiple years
- Easy to add new subjects

### **🔧 Automation**
- Automated database updates
- Smart file detection
- Year extraction from filenames
- **Duplicate prevention**

### **🌐 Web Integration**
- Seamless website integration
- Proper URL structure
- Database-driven display

---

## 🎯 **Ready to Use**

The folder structure is now complete and ready for:
- ✅ **File Uploads**: Upload past papers to specific subject folders
- ✅ **Database Integration**: Use the automated script
- ✅ **Duplicate Prevention**: Automatic detection and skipping of duplicates
- ✅ **Website Display**: Files will be accessible through the past papers pages
- ✅ **Year-wise Organization**: Multiple years can be stored for each subject

**Start uploading your past papers now!** 📚
